# Async await vs `Task.ContinueWith()` #

Download a website and count the bytes downloaded.

## A ##

A thread-based implementation; we create one thread per URl and block during download, inefficient.


## B ##

A task-based implementation; we create and run one task per URL and then count the bytes via calling `Task.ContinueWith()` on the result.

## C ##

A properly asynchronous implementation, calling `HttpClient.GetByteArrayAsync()` with an `await` keyword from an `async` method.

The `async` method modifier requires the method to return a `Task` or `Task<T>` and allows the use of `await`.

The difference between B and C is that `async/await` produces a state-machine whereas `Task.ContinueWith()` does not.

There is a huge difference in the generated code. The `async/await` state machine handles resuming on the task's source context gracefully, whereas `ContinueWith()` requires additional hand-holding in some cases.

The `async/await` keywords are syntactic sugar for a state machine over an **awaiter** that is returned via `Task.GetAwaiter()`, but there is nothing that makes it task-specific as such. You can mis-use the async/await syntax and implement your own monadic type with it s.t. `await` becomes more like a `let!` in F\# or `let*` in OCaml:

```csharp
    var x = await e;
    return f(x);
```

```csharp
    e.Bind(x => f(x));
```

Note however that this straightforward re-write is not what happens for `Task`: the generated byte code does not call `Task.ContinueWith()`!
